She was born in a town on the other side of the world, in Kansas. And they are a part of America, this country that I love. Indeed, none of us should tolerate these extremists. We see it in the history of Andalusia and Cordoba during the Inquisition. But we should choose the right path, not just the easy path.

Go into the collar counties around Chicago, and people will tell you they don't want their tax money wasted, by a welfare agency or by the Pentagon. There was even a time when the Christian Coalition determined that its number one legislative priority was tax cuts for the rich. Tell that to the military families who shoulder their burdens silently as they watch their loved ones leave for their third or fourth or fifth tour of duty. And for the sake of our economy, our security, and the future of our planet, I will set a clear goal as President: in ten years, we will finally end our dependence on oil from the Middle East.

For alongside our famous individualism, there's another ingredient in the American saga. Last time we took up immigration reform, it failed. What the nay-sayers don't understand is that this election has never been about me. It's a promise I make to my daughters when I tuck them in at night, and a promise that you make to yours - a promise that has led immigrants to cross oceans and pioneers to travel west; a promise that led workers to picket lines, and women to reach for the ballot.

Tonight is a particular honor for me because - let's face it - my presence on this stage is pretty unlikely. More work to do for the workers I met in Galesburg, Ill., who are losing their union jobs at the Maytag plant that's moving to Mexico, and now are having to compete with their own children for jobs that pay seven bucks an hour. Like other predominantly black churches across the country, Trinity embodies the black community in its entirety - the doctor and the welfare mom, the model student and the former gang-banger. Let us be our brother's keeper, Scripture tells us. That's not the judgment we need.

And then another one. And today, whenever I find myself feeling doubtful or cynical about this possibility, what gives me the most hope is the next generation - the young people whose attitudes and beliefs and openness to change have already made history in this election. And Ashley asks him why he's there. And when I hear a woman talk about the difficulties of starting her own business, I think about my grandmother, who worked her way up from the secretarial pool to middle-management, despite years of being passed over for promotions because she was a woman. We are taking concrete actions to change course.

Thank you. And may God's peace be upon you.
